---
date: 2020-11-16 12:26:40
layout: post
title: Virtual FCHacks 2020 Showcase
subtitle: First high school-led virtual hackathon in Western PA
description:
image: /assets/img/teams/bg_1.jpg
optimized_image: /assets/img/teams/bg_1.jpg
category:
tags:
author: fchacks
---

On November 13-14, one hundred and ten students from eleven countries competed in a virtual Hackathon hosted by Fox Chapel Area High School students. FCHacks ran for 24 hours from Friday evening to Saturday evening eastern time. Because of COVID-19, Lead Organizer, Sanjay Seshan, FC’21, asked to move the entire event to a virtual environment. Along with Arvind Seshan, FC’23, and Janise Kim, FC ’22, the three students ran the event from their homes. They spent months preparing, including creating the website and submission system and coordinating all the volunteers.

More than 22 volunteers from all over the United States mentored the students and ran workshops for them. The theme of the event was Hacking Healthcare which was revealed only on the day of the event. Students were given 24 hours to come up with a technology solution to a solve any problem in healthcare. Several teams tackled COVID-19 related projects. Some students created websites that diagnose illnesses and promote social health. Others made apps to calculate BMI or provide exercise recommendations. Other teams focused on tracking eating habits. There was a wonderful variety of projects and types of solutions.

Nearly $1000 in prizes were given out. The top award went to a group of students from North Allegheny Senior High School. Their team, Segmentation Fault, created an app to help those with autism or schizophrenia recognize emotions in text messages.

On this showcase website, you can learn more about some of the submitted projects. Project writeups, code files and project videos are shared with permission of the authors.
