---
date: 2020-11-14 12:26:40
layout: post
title: //TODO
subtitle: School contact traving
description: Contact tracing software for schools
image: /assets/img/teams/bg_1.jpg
optimized_image: /assets/img/teams/bg_1.jpg
category:
tags:
author: fchacks
---

Our high school follows contact tracing like all others schools, but it does so in a slow and cumbersome manner. The longer the process takes, the higher the risk of transmission and the lower the effectiveness of the contact tracing. As such, our design proposal is software intended to automate this process. This is important to the theme because the best healthcare is not needing it at all. Our design minimizes the transmission of Covid-19 and makes it less people will need to use their healthcare for tests and possible treatment, improving healthcare through technology.

Our hope is that the program would be able to more efficiently and accurately provide results. The software would accomplish this in two main ways. The first would be the storing and navigating of a digital seating chart. If a student is identified as having covid, the program would find each instance of the student in a seating chart and determine the risk of infection for their classmates based off of proximity. We would like to note the final decision of whether or not a student should be quarantined will remain a human decision. This software merely accelerates the process by which the relevant information required to make such a decision is gathered. The second way in which the program would contact trace would be with facial recognition using something similar to the Google Computer Vision API. This would be used in the cafeteria of our school primarily (due to the fact that looking at the cameras is how the school is already tracing in the cafeteria). Additionally, since our school already has a database of students associated with pictures, implementing this would not be out of the question. As a final note, the user of the software would be able to specify for how many days back they wanted the program to contact trace.

Our solution is innovative because it has never been done in our school and accounts for the fact that students aren’t allowed to carry their cell phones in school. This removes the capability of apps designed to automate contact tracing, allowing our design to shine through in places where cellular devices aren’t present, either by choice or by circumstance. It also combines facial recognition technology with basic data manipulation.


Creators:
